hey part of the secret to why I look
exhausted on this YouTube channel so
often is that I generally do record
youtube videos only when I am too tired
to warn down too exhausted to be doing
something more productive with my time
right now if I were not so worn down
this is what I would be doing with my
time this is a course to teach yourself
Japanese that is taught in the German
language does this Japan ish in dry
ticket tagging module else he'll
sprocket so that would be practicing
German while I'm learning Japanese to be
honest with you after I stopped
recording this video I'm going to try
I've got to put some more energy into
this right now it is the evening here
but i have to be up at 5am to get on
train train takes me to an airplane
airplane takes me to a boat it's going
to be a horrendous day tomorrow and I
may not sleep all night actually this is
a strange illustration of one aspect of
why YouTube is not a waste of my time
because it is something you can do at
any time but i am going to give a little
bit more of a profound set of
reflections hear about the ways in which
youtube is not a waste of your time and
it's actually something quite meaningful
on my resume on my CV I list that I gave
a lecture at Oxford University England
formal academic lecture I gave another
lecture at so as University of London
totally different the actual text what
was presented to those two original
material for those two lectures you can
definitely get the text for the Oxford
lecture on the internet right now by
going to including on it when I speak on
YouTube whether it's scripted or
unscripted I'm going to post a link here
to an example of one of my videos here
on my youtube channel that is scripted
where I wrote a lecture in advance and
performed it on microphone so to speak
when I record and upload something here
reliably 200 people will see it who are
really interested that's whether i'm
talking about veganism buddhism politics
of china any other topic sooner or later
that's going to get around to an
audience of shall we say humbly 200
people some of my youtube videos have
reached more than a thousand i think a
couple of my videos have reached 10,000
people but not all the people who click
on a video or really interested really
want to hear it so we're going to use a
conservative estimate here at say 200
people when i gave those lectures in
person at Oxford University and
University of London there were vastly
fewer than 200 people and even though
the people who are they are going to be
polite to you many of them will be there
for the wrong reasons it happens to me
happens to everyone you go to a lecture
on the basis of seeing the title seeing
a little bit of information not really
knowing what it's going to be about or
maybe you go to a lecture because your
girlfriend wants to go you go to lecture
because a friend of yours tracks you
along necessarily the number of people
in the audience is much fewer and the
number of people who really wanted to
hear that content is only going to be a
small subset of that audience and the
wonderful thing about YouTube is that my
content can sit here until the people
who are really interested in hearing it
happen to find it now I also used to
work as an editor an editor of
nonfiction in the publishing industry
publishing books and we publish books
written by university professors all
sorts of people but predominantly
academics researchers and various kinds
if we had a book that sold 500 copies
that was a hit book
if we had a book that sold 500 copies in
its first year that was a smash hit book
and those were books on history politics
languages the reason why I was an editor
there was that they were books about the
sorts of things that interest me the
first thing to talk about on this
YouTube channel quite frankly um now
admittedly a YouTube video is not a book
but in some ways as a method of
communication this is more meaningful
and it brings about much better results
in your life that lecture I gave at
Oxford what positive results came out of
it really nothing it sits on my resume
as an accomplishment did I make a single
friend from giving that lecture note do
I make friends by speaking YouTube yes I
make real friends in real life to this
YouTube channel that's one of my main
reasons for putting time and effort into
having a web presence at all I often say
to people what i'm doing here is not
really activism any more than having a
conversation with someone who you happen
to meet at a coffee shop can be called
activism a large part of what i'm doing
here is just talking to friends past
present and future someone may see this
video five years from now who is my
friend five years in the future who i
haven't met yet that's kind of wonderful
the lecture I gave at Oxford do you
think my daughter is everybody care
about that I have a two-year-old
daughter you can see what she looks like
on the same youtube channel she's not
going to care about that but right now
being able to look into my eyes through
this camera see my strangely dishwater
green eyes and have some sense of the
man I was in this town my life that
could indeed be meaningful to my
daughter one day um I really feel that
YouTube is not a waste of time both for
all the reasons I just mentioned and
because of the way you can dynamically
fit it into your life at times when you
can't be doing other forms of work I'm
tempted of course to just end this video
at that moment
but I had a little bit more to say I do
get email from people reflecting on how
my work has changed their lives and
although it's sometimes is about my
written work it's very often in response
to my youtube videos and very often I
think they would not have read my
written work if they didn't see the
youtube video first so they make
connection to the YouTube video then
they look up and read my essays are
looking to my background a bit further
um I doubt that any of the lectures I've
given in real life had that effect on
people or if they did I never heard
about it and with YouTube I have changed
a few people's lives and I have heard
about and one other interesting element
is how different it is how fundamentally
unpretentious it is for you to hear my
voice and see the look in my eyes to
this peculiar medium that makes a
digital ghost out of all of us I had a
lot of experience with the written word
and while I did not grow up with a June
belief in the power of the written word
I think I was naive when I was younger
in that I thought people took their time
in reading something set out in writing
and would get less emotionally
distraught by it that they would respond
more rationally simply because a written
language forces us to slow down and
think things through methodically and
what I've learned as an adult is that
the exact opposite is true there were
such extreme reactions to what I wrote
on peeper whether i was talking about
buddhism veganism politics history
and people used to react and cast all
kinds of aspersions on my character and
really kind of admit stories about me
and described very strange motives to me
and as soon as I started talking on
YouTube all of that stopped the whole
tone and tenor and content of how people
reacted to me and my work in every field
in every field I've commented on changed
and change for the better and I don't
know what that says about my fellow
human beings the 21st century that
people really did not want to believe in
my humanity when they read the written
word whether they responded to my
writing by making me into a hero or by
making into a villain the reactions were
so extreme even when my own writing was
completely unpretentious but I'm
delighted to find that simply by using
this medium simply by communicating with
people through YouTube I've managed to
somehow puncture those illusions